---
layout: post
title: Mental Models
description: Mental models are totally mental
categories: 2014 02
author: Jason Perez
type: article
"lead-image": "/images/penguins-and-personas.png"
"lead-image-alt": derpy derp
"lead-image-title": I love derps
published: false
---

<p class="lead-in">
What feature in our Bragging Points app should we implement first? I don't know. I know which one I think is cool. But I don't know if anyone will use it. That's where mental models can help us out. Mental models provide us with visual representations of the thought process of a person or a group of people. Each model represents the thought process of a specific segments of user. We've seen these segments already in the form of our initial user stories. Indi Young wrote an excellent book on Mental Models. In it, she categorizes mental models as a generative research technique that explores the mind space of someone doing something.
</p>

If we were to observe the process of ordering food, we could break this down into easily observable steps: reading the menu, making a selection, placing the order. The mental model is concerned then with the thoughts we have as we work through these steps.

* Attempt to find the lunch specials
* Confused by the large selection
* It's 3PM but I don't see a time limit on the lunch specials
* Is it still lunch time
* I'll ask that because if it's lunch time then...

In this quick example we can see how a mental model can help inform design decisions. In the case of reading the menu, perhaps we can make the lunch menu a little easier to find at lunch time. Maybe we have a separate lunch menu that we only provide during our lunch hours.

h2. Checking our progress

Last time we identified the key personas in the Bragging Points app. There are two main roles: Pool Manager and Pool Player. The Pool Manager has one persona: Westley. The Pool Player has two personas: Inigo and Vizzini.

h2. What I like about mental models

This new app is going to have an initial set of features, I mean you have to start somewhere. My initial goal is to keep the users engaged in the feedback loop as we iterate through the initial versions of this application.

I can have the users list out all of the features they'd like to have and then have them prioritize those features. This could actually work and the users will feel great about having a voice and being a part of the process. But what if they're not being honest with themselves? What if what they want isn't really what they need. Perhaps mental models will help put together a picture of what is needed. Without much pomp and circumstance you can get a nice visual idea of how much mental thought is being put behind each one of those identified tasks.

h2. The Pool Maanger's mental model

After meeting with some potential Pool Managers I come up with the following model.



The top parts of this model represent the and the bottom parts represent the . What we can clearly see is that Pool Managers spend a lot of time and mental energy managing this whole bit. Perhaps this is a good place to start.

Now that I have a good snapshot of some of the important areas of the app I can focus on features in this specific area, get these out first, and then get the feedback. Not only will the users feel like their involved, but they're also going to increase the chances of earning their trust.

h3. Thought process of a Pool Manager



h3. Thinking about the app

We may not be able to get rid of some of these steps, even the little ones just yet. We may be able to get rid of some of the steps and decrease the size of these skyscrapers.

For instance, look at "Get the current schedule". This step involves going to another website to get schedules. We may do that even in the app. Why? Wellthat type of integration isn't something we want to be caught up in right away.

We can see from this skyscraper view the areas where there's a lot of tasks that need to be done.

Let's look at "get the player pick sheets back" compared to "add each players picks to the   master". It's obvious to see that getting the sheets back has more steps to it than does entering all the picks. But I'm sure if you looked at time spent... they're just different kinds of work. I'm sure entering all of the picks is a very boring and arduous task whereas hunting people down for their picks has its own challenges. I

h2. What's next

Now that we have some user stories around the Westley Pool Manager persona we're going to start digging into the details on these features. As it turns out we actually have enough info here to put together a nice little teaser product page as well. We'll do that next time.